02-49-13

the writing on the walls is one of the gene sequences in each kid's subconchous? pg 1857
1690 has the first apperance of rose's writing

"but not many" acutally means 413 years! 1674
bec came from the asteroid that grew the frog ruins??? also the frog ruins were grown
also jade remembers so john's package because of the finger rings
jade's dreambot records what she sees while she's asleep!
skaia visions helped jade get her 13th birthday package to her 3rd birthday
also skaia clouds literally change shape and show images. that's not just a meaphor. :/
she also got john's host disk and present to him via skaia bullshit?? 
atributes supplied by prototypings come from the four orbed ring
battlefield is in the center of skaia!
prospit knows they're going to lose
the white queen exiled herself
ar is scared of bec...
john's denizen clogged the network of pipes with oil
also they trapped the fireflys i knew this but like. don't forget!!!! :(
killing the denizen releases grist stored at the core of the planet
THE METEORS ARE CAUSED BY SKAIA'S DEFENSE PORTALS DURING THE RECKONING
john's package had a powerful weapon?? THATS HOW HE KILLED THE QUEEN OH
the midnight crew are the agents
THE MIDNIGHT CREW INTERMISSION TOOK PLACE ON FUTURE ALTERNIAF\
rose's exile is the white queen
"how she'd need to learn to play the rain to produce the musical analogue of a genetic code to reintroduce life into the ocean."
the sequence "meow" unlocked the genetic code in rose's subconcious...
prototypings make you more powerful!

ectobioligy pg 1866 -- talked

MENTION EVERYONE'S SILLYDEX. sylladex -- talked
they act like hammerspace (pg 40), but with some restrictions based off of modus type -- talked
modi are able to be switched between, and do not seem to take up any cards in the sylladex. -- talked
wearable items in the sylladex are taken out of the deck when worn, but are still attached to the card. (pg 46) -- talked
wearable items may be combined onto one card, even when the card is in use! cards in use will not be useable by any other object in your sylladex. you may also switch out components of wearable cards, as seen on page 73. -- talked
wearable items can sustain damage, but any damage inflicted on them will be completly absorbed. (pg 92) -- talked
there ARE limits to how big of an object can fit in a card. on page 68, egbert is unable to pick up the huge harlequin -- talked
weaponizing sylladexes is an interesting tactic. when an item is ejected from your sylladex, it will be forced out of your sylladex at various speeds... depending on what your modus is. -- talked
you can merge multiple items to one card! -- talked
btw you can captchalouge captchalouge cards :D when they are ejected from your deck, they simply add to the amount of cards you can work with (pg 98) -- talked
oh my god THE CONTROL DECK IS SO COOL. it lets you combine the functions of multiple fetch moduses :D
you can captchalouge living things???????? pg 1638 -- talked
you can take out bits of merged cards without ejecting the whole card! pg 1713 -- talked

egbert's - 
STACK. can only access the latest item captchalouged. grab too much stuff and the oldest item is ejected! ejection is not fast enough to kill someone with a baseball. merging cards will also merge any cards inbetween (pg 103) -- talked
QUENE. opposite of stack. can only access the oldest item captchalouged. dear god it ejects so fast that you could kill someone with a baseball -- talked
ARRAY. get any card out at any time! no you can not weaponize it -- talked

rose - TREE. like a filesystem, but each of the files are folders themselves! aka you can stack items on top of each other in really big towers. if you take an item out, all of the items under it in the filestructure will be ejected too!! autobalancing sucks and you can just turn it off so just. turn it off :p -- talked

david - HASHMAP. you can set the hash to however you would like... maybe! the setting dave uses will convert the names of picked up objects into an equasion that will put the object in the sum of however many letters are in a word, with consonats providing 2... values. knock off any digit that's out of range for the amount of cards you have. also, yelling out a word may launch an object from your sylladex? (pg 354). also, you can set the card to not allow you to take things if they collide with any object already in your sylladex -- talked
pg 319 

jade -
  jenga's on pg 1369. cool -- talked
  PICTIONARY ON PG 1372!!! -- talked
you have to draw each item before captchalouging, and when taking an item out of your deck
crosses out any text you write in it
drawing something you don't have makes a ghost version of it... you can get the code of an item you don't have this way, but the object will just watermark on the card (pg 1379)

dadbert's fetch moduses
WALLET (relevant page numbers include pg 1898)
 - cards go in the wallet.


strife specubi can only have one allocated weaponkind, and the allocated weaponkind is permanant. it does free up a card of sylladex use, though... -- talked
you have to find multiple specubi cards to have multiple weapons in your strife specubi! (pg 167) -- talked
strife specubi may be broken if you weapon is damaged. if you repair an item that is in your broken specubi, the card will revert to the fixed version! (pg 410) -- talked
EB: "i can't imagine it's going to be all that relevant." (page 39) -- talked

john allocates to hammerkind -- talked
rose allocates to needlekind -- talked
dave allocates to bladekind -- talked
jade allocates to riflekind -- talked

john likes the piano! -- talked
rose - viola -- talked
dave - turntables -- talked
jade - bass -- talked

john's planet - land of wind and shade -- talked
rose's planet - land of light and rain
john's planet - land of heat and clockwork
jade's planet - land of frost and frogs

yeah like everyone is playing sburb

i have the ps poster brag about that

johnyboy loves piss poor movies remember that -- talked about
also they have a peanut allergy! uh oh! -- talked about
have you SEEN colonial sassire's daunting text???
their dad LOVES to shave
no their dad DOESN'T LIKE CLOWNS
they're very insecure about their drawings
nice guy and a weenie pushover (pg 1579)
chaos dunk. pg 1711

rose lives with her mom in a forest. near a lab. woohoo? -- talked
horrible power situation when it rains :( -- talked
her mom LOVES WIZARDS -- talked
she uses a mac ewww -- talked (fun fact notifications are on page 415)
you'll need every advantage you can get.
she loves the grimoire! -- talked
have you seen the horrorterrors. they're real. --talked
it has been raining for 14 DAYS STRAIGHT. (pg 308) -- talked
psycoanalis is her favorite passtime! has been since 2000. she was 2. -- talked
haha her cat is dead -- talked
oh yeah she can rap too. pg 522 -- talked
she just??? skipped having to wake up because of her doomed dream self dying??? pg 1656

dave is the god of irony -- talked
SWEET BRO AND HELLA JEFF WE'RE MAKING IT HAPPEN -- talked
his brother is. horrible -- talked
oh my god lil cal influences can be seen as early as pg 419
said brother uses COMPLETE BULLSHIT as a browser -- talked
oh yeah he likes to rap -- talked
his remixes are all just overlaying drum loops???

-- [S] Decend. --

shows how bro SLICED OPEN A METEOR. also how dave entered
bec was cloned from rose's meow book by diamonds droog -- talked
shows how jack started the reckoning with the white king's staff
jade's dreamself dies!!!! D: prospit fucking eats it. luckily john survived, and is now on the battlefield.
jack just Flips Out and starts killing random dersites and prospites. also shows off his red miles
the gaurdians are near skaia now! except for bro. he's still on lohac
Jade's meteor is looming.

i don't think dave's brother is very ironic. just surreal. -- talked
his brother also pretty muched ruined the kitchen? -- talked

-- use vagabounce for wv's page
introduced properly on pg 666 -- talked
wayward vagabond HATES KINGS. hates em -- talked
he's also a little insane
i THINK he's a dersite? knows about the beta kid's planets, derse, and prospit. -- talked
LOVES TAB -- talked
he named the firefly serenity! awww
originally a farmer! - pg 1801

BETA MARX TWAIN APPEARS ON PG 1915
HIS WIFE IS BETTY CROCKER?? (who i think is HIC)
a meteor crashed on jade's last name's namesake, a dog named halley - 1917 -- talked
JAKE SHOT HIM??
jake ran away on halley, leaving jane to stay alone with the baroness. pg 1922 

on page 691, the troll's blood colors (except for candyblood. you know why) was ALMOST ENTIRELY REVEALED. but instead of magenta or whatever fef's color is there's peach. ugh -- talked
page 702, 703, and 704 show prospit, the beta kids' planets, and derse... going from north to south, assuming the initial viewpoint is facing south. john's planet is covered in tar?

-- wayward vagabond's machines --

-- sburb room --

haha the machine here looks like the sburb logo

he can talk to john through the machine, using a prompter
pressing tab opens a secret compartment in the facility! at the time wv presses it, it is filled with tab soda.
pressing escape brings up all of the prompts that the user has sent
by typing SWITCH [1 thru 4], you can switch the active monitors between each player
typing HOME brings you to a countdown with the sburb logo, and a countdown. it also disables the prompter!
VIEW pulls up the player viewing screen
if you try to talk to someone that is impossible to communicate with, the machines 'SPLODES!
when the timer ends, the compound will shut. if you're trapped inbetween the entrence and the ladder to the outside world, prepare to drown! (this is what the refrance is)
inside of the locked room, you may spin the floor of the facility to change where the door leads. stupid dumb design choice

-- appearifyer room --

inside is a appearifyer! pressing the three spiral button aWV STOLE MY PUMPKIN WHAT THE FUCK
the dials on it change the x, y, and z axis, with the clock dial changing the time it appearifys from
you can not dissapearify with the appearifyer. stupid
appearifyers can not paradoxify anything! (i. e., appearify something that NEEDS to be in a specific place at a specific time.) if you try to paradoxify something, you will simply get a ghost imprint of whatever you were trying to steal... that quickly becomes a pile of sludge.
ghost imprints CAN create paradox clones, though! ectobioligy is so fun

--

-- use the ohgodwhat remix for jade's page
yeah i misplace things all the time! -- talked
reminders I LOVE THEM -- talked
YAY TELEPORTERS they have the same symbols as the apearifyer...
oh hellyess the wardrobeifyer... -- talked
TANGLEBUDDIES!!!!!! :D -- talked
oh my god hyes (pg 797) -- talked
PROBLEMSLOOTH YESG
oh my god i love the refrigerator effects
THE SUPERBASS YESSSSSSSSS -- talked
i use the echidna browser! -- talked
"TG: if kangaroo rat yiff twice plz" yes honey im asleep 
  i have never used honey in a serious way and im not sure i ever will
lass scamper! :D
oh yeah i have an AWESOME DREAMBOT ... -- talked
my grandpa sold ammunition :( -- talked
my lunchtop can read disks :D
intrests -- from pages 789 and 790

Peregrine Mendicant... introduced pg 892
has a barcode too? i think she's a prospit mailperson - proven pg 1460
MAIL. yes she is. pg 896
she's in a sburb room! rose's exile
WORMFRIEND
Parcel Mistress

aimless renigade! introduced pg 1100
Authority Regulator
YOU ARE THE LAW WHOOPS
proven dersite on pg 1456!

white queen? windswept questant
appears under the eggy lookin thign (sic)

hussie HUSSIE
stupid fucker has been around since jailbreak 1
self indulgent horse painting -- talked
THE GOD OF HOMESTUCK (refrencing pg 1678) -- talked

-- player claspects --

john's a heir of breath
rose is a seer of light
dave's a knight of time
i'm a witch of space! woof

terezi's a seer of mind right

seers can hear the exiles more clearly? pg 1524

--

talk about the beta! smooth john -- talked

browsers that the kids use foreshadow their denizens

MENTION TBIY
whirlybird

dave's first pesterchum log is on page 26. also is the first pesterchum log. they talk about apple juice piss. truly excelent.
rose's is on page 63! it's a lot more silly :D
jade's is technically on page 110 :/ its not a real conversation though... john and jade's first ACTUAL conversation is on pg 169. cool.

karkat was introduced via pesterchum on page 859!
tarvos's first pesterchum log was on pg 1099. don't talk to me about it. talk to me about 1595 instead!
terezi's was on pg 1524
kanaya's first was on page 1593!
sollux was first teased on pg 1715!

john was of course, first seen on page one. 
rose was first seen on page 214
dave was first seen on page 309
jade has been on multiple pages beforehand, but was properly introduced on page 760!!

talk about the diffrent pesterchum versions 
john uses 6.0... it's avalible on both PDAs and computers for sure --talked
dave uses 7.0. avalible on ios, and whatever linux thing the striders use! -- talked
i use PC enamel! assuming this is like it's own client...  -- talked

page 31 has the ghostbusters 2 mmo. also some links to mspas -- talked
page 32 talks about the colonel sassacher's daunting text being able to kill a cat! this will come up later.

TG: shes mackin on me so hard all the time i start to feel embarrassed for her
TG: i mean not that i can blame her or anything
EB: yes, it is understandable because you are really attractive. i am attracted to you.
TG: thank you
EB: jk haha.

GAMEBRO SUCKS
"Each GAMEBRO MAGAZINE is guaranteed to be printed on 40% recycled asbestos. For big ups to Mother Earth, yo." (pg 51) -- talked

talk about how much stuff pays off even in the early comic oh my god i love this man

pg 65: You don't care what COLONEL SASSACRE says, that makes it AT LEAST a million percent funnier. -- talked

mention the toblerone stuff -- talked

the commands are like? in the characters heads? and it messes with them? haha no mental conditions here (pg 268) -- talked

bec doesn't want jade near the meteor? 

jack has a barcode on the back of the rules card he has... -- talked

first use of P[II] on page 1288
NO STUPID IT WAS IN PROBLEM SLEUTH FIRST. STUPID

on page 1667, john says that humans are born as pink babies to karkat. mention that :p
john also refers to the babies as "little pink monkeys" on pg 1903

CAL IS REAL????

troll jegus on pg 1684

CAL HAS A DREAMSELF?????????????????????????????????????????????????? i mean if it's a form of caliborn i guess but like????????????????????????????/ what. my grandpa doesn't have a dreamself. pg 1699

CHARLES BARKLEY. pg 1706

-- use ????? for dave's dreamselves audio
-- derse dreamers for rose's

1,000,000 (million) boondollars = one boonbuck

you can hear the furthest ring's gods from derse apparently! pg 1857

-- ectobiology stuff --

the last ectobiologist calibrated the appearifier on page 1865
copied nannabert --> made jane
copied grandpa --> made jake
copied bro --> made dirk
nannabert died thanks to john's meteor :(
copied mom lalonde --> made roxy
gcat sequence is used to make the paradox clones - pg 1886
dna button mixed gpa + nannabert's stuff - made john and jade
same with mom lalonde and bro strider - made rose and dave
same sequence is used for the beta kids' creation!
ectobiology can help you level up :D - pg 1891
the ectobiology machines that john uses are in the veil - pg 1903

paradox clones ARE sent in the reckoning! though for some reason they're sent way before all the other meteors from earth's perspective

pg 1904
baby john liked the colonial sasscare's 
baby jane got in dadbert's old inked hat
dirk fell asleep on dream cal. why is dream cal here what
dave got on maplehoof???
jake picked up some revolvers


"no aquatic life would survive" to a laboratory on the east cost

aw my grandpa named a boat after me... pg 1874
grandpa and dadbert took a transportalizer to one of the meteors in the veil. now they're on a ship?
pages 1895

yes you can navigate the veil

frog temple was in the veil??? pg 1910 -- talked

dave dropped rose's Secret Books (one of which contained a genetic code) on his toilet (now in his bedroom), and the beta kids' diamonds droog picked it up (along with dave's beta disks, which dave was using as bookmarks) while he was gone. around page 1855
rose tried to destroy the meow book, as requested by the furthest gods
davesprite being made make the codes matter?
droog dropped dave's beta copies in the seed within the frog temple - pg 1924
also left rose's wizard book there :p

--

seed in frog temple needs to be set - pg 1912
also there's an appearifier - pg 1913, 1923


-- lowas --

act 4 is a HUGE playable flash with lots of worldbuilding for the land of wind and shade. -- talked
lowas has a blue color scheme, and has yellow salamanders -- talked
its full of parcel pyxis! if you put a tablet of something you want in, someone else can put that item in the parcel pyxis if theyre nice! -- talked
hot tip press the magnifying glass -- talked

post flash: 
MY GRANDPA'S HERE??? pg 1471 -- talked

--

-- lolar --

has neon flashing water, lots of rain, and a blue sky!
also floating turtle shells that pour water? pg 1623

--

-- lohac --

has a ton of water, and clockwork buildings + platforms.

--

FIRST BLUH ON PG 1442 DAMNIT DAVE

-- the midnight crew the MIDNIGHT CREW!!! --

spades slick is the leader -- talked
jack noir in the dream moons -- talked
uses a battle chest! -- talked
appears on intermission page 1155 -- talked
karkat's exile - pg 1353 
KILLED THE QUEEN??? i forgot about this so thats how he got the ring... pg 1668 -- talked
also killed the king, and broke his staff. pg 1801 -- talked

clubs deuce - short guy so small so silly. he likes licorish. uses the battledrobe - appears on intermission page 1177
courtyard drool in the dream moons - pg 1784

diamonds droog. he's the nomral one :p uses the brawlsoleum. likes sweedish fish! - appears on intermission page 1198
cats droog appears on pg 1532. sorry i mean DRACONIAN DIGNITARY (pg 1788)
he's on lohac???? pg 1860

hearts boxcar - large! - appears on intermission page 1216
boxcars uses the wraithtub!
YOU HATE TIME TRAVEL (pg 1251)
also has a barcode? pg 1333
961 has his first appearence in the beta kids' session 

--

-- da FELT --

itchy (1) can speed up time for himself! - introduced page 1184
doze (2) can slow down time for himself ... - introduced page 1177
trace (3) can hurt you from the future! like with past trails - introduced page 1203
clover (4) likes to blab after you answer his TIME RIDDLES. shown pg 1252
fin (5) follows your FUTURE trail! he can affect you from the past. introduced page 1230
die (6) can hop timelines with his weird ass doll - introduced page 1191 
crowbar (7) is the smart one... i think. crowbar's crowbar can destory any time changing object, and negate its effect. first seen on pg 1265
snowman (8) is first introduced on pg 1267. if you kill her, you destroy the universe! queen on derse
stitch (9) is first seen on pg 1253. he can patch you up if he has your effigy! when you die, your effigy burns
sawbuck (10) is annoying and very, very tough. damaging him switches timelines... relevant by pg 1270 
eggs (12) can go back in time! usually to help himself in fights. introduced page 1225
biscuits (13) can spend forever in an oven. cool? introduced page 1224

cans (15) is huge and can knock people into last week. literally. introduced page 1330

their boss is lord english??? good god how long has this man been here
pg 1253 has LE's coat being worked on
on pg 1337, lord engrish's safe sends spades into a really bad timeline for him

--

-- trollian --

trollian is dumb as hell here's some page numbers for you FGG <3
pg 1746 - shows how to open viewports, and also has some general ui

--


-- SBURB FUNCTIONS --

starting on page 138, TT is connected to john's house. this is where most of my analasis of sburb will come from!
sburb is a stupid computer game that needs a server player and a host player. server players just run the game on their pc, and host players are able to edit their server's house and surrounding grounds with the goal of getting them into the medium
hosts are limited to the server player btw! (pg 144)
you can only see what the player has seen (pg 510)
UNDO/REDO BUTTONS: turn the camera. haha
MAGNIFYING GLASS: zoom in or out!
SELECT: move items around. you can't move people... if a floor or wall or someting is attached to a movable object, the floor will come with it! it will spend some build grist (pg 163). you can ALSO pick up items while they are held by people (pg 176)!! you cannot move grist, unless you move the object it is sitting on.
REVISE: edit structure of the server's house! requires build grist. you can copy elements and place them multiple times too <3 (511)

Phernalia Registry: items that you can deploy that help with getting through sburb, such as the totem lathe, cruxtruder, alchemiter, and pre-punched card. these three items are able to be created without any grist. you can also store items in it (pg 224), and delete them to regain grist (pg 261) 
Atheneum: list of things you can create with cruxite dowels! 189

cruxtruder: requires no grist. creates cruxite totems, and ejects a kernalsprite when opened! opening it is hard though... once you open it, a countdown timer is activated which is tied to when a meteor crashes into your house. it will blow up your entire neighborhood! so get to the medium quick!! 172
alchemiter: requires no grist. creates items from cruxite totems! you will need grist to create the items, though. the alchemiter may be operated by the host
totem lathe: requires no grist. carves cruxite totems with punched cards so that the dowels can be used with the alchemiter!
pre-punched card: requires no grist. use with totem lathe
punch designx: requires 4 purple shale. can punch cards from the captcha on the back of a card with an item! if a card is punched with an item inside of it, you will no longer be able to take the item out of the card. additionally, any punched cards will be unusable as standard cards. you can punch cards twice though, to create diffrent effects in the totem lathe than what is possible though putting two cards in!
jumper block extention: 1000 build grist. an extention to the alcemiter! can only be placed on solid ground...
cd: 100 build grist. contains gristtorrent! an addon for sburb (1519) also mention gristgutter?
punch card shunt: 10 build grist. captchalouge cards can fit in it, and modify how the alchemiter works! pg 1558. goes on the jumper block
holopad: 10,000 build grist. shows you what item a punched card will create! i guess you can't view what item you're gonna make before making it (pg 1567)
intelbeam lazerwhatever: 100,000 build grist.

losing connection with your server/host player will NOT immediatly gameend everything. sburb will simply wait for a reconnection... (pg 173)

KERNALSPRITES: 
kernalsprites are weird things that come from your cruxtruder, and have three stages. you can prototype your kernalsprite to trancend each stage!
STAGE 1: base form... talks in gibberish
STAGE 2: affects in-game enemies. speaks in runes related to whatever it was prototyped with... divides after entering the medium. possibly giving way to the gates?

HATCHED SPRITES: 
second form of kernalsprites, created after entering the medium with a prototyped kernalsprite. will not prototype with inanimate objects... courpses are fair game though!
your server player will need to prototype your sprite. 

FULL SPRITES: 
the final form of sprites. will take on the memories and personality of whoever was prototyped with it! acts as a guide for people who have no idea what to do
they can damage enemies with lazers (pg 492), as well as heal and pick up objects with them! (pg 843)

LEVELING UP?
yeah you can level up. climing the rungs of your echeladder gives you boondollars, more health (gel viscocity), a bigger grist cache limit, and man grit. strength, i assume?

GRIST TYPES
build - used for building
shale - rarer commodity, but still plentiful. typically used with alchemiting
tar 
mercury

You can't wait to find out what amazing items this new supply of grist will be just barely insufficient to produce.

fun fact! each session has their own little medium (pg 1394)

each consecutive server player gets 2xA where A = 10^server players in-game. aka your first player will get a 20 grist cap, second will get 200 grist cap, third will get 2000 grist... ect (pg 1510)

--

EGBERT'S SPRITE: nannasprite. first seen on page 285, and introduced properly on page 418
ROSE'S SPRITE: jaspersprite. introduced page 1624
BETA TIMELINE DAVE'S SPRITE: davesprite. comes from a doomed timeline... introduced pg 1651!

rose's denizen ate everything in the sea? and that's why it's asleep? pg 1626

-- THE MEDIUM --

upon entering the medium, your house will retain power through some "mysterious force" (pg 253, outside of john's back door)
your kernalsprite will hatch into a sprite-sprite, which then sends data to both the forces of derse and prospit. if you have actually prototyped your sprite at all, they will be in a stalemate no longer! light's destined to lose, though...
the soldiers of derse at least have barcodes on their wrists?
when the forces of prospit eventually lose the game, the reconing will begin. the black king and queen gain the power to send the veil (a huge bunch of asteroids that circle outside of the medium) to skaia, so that it will be destroyed. by killing the black queen and king, you will buy more time to complete the game!

the veil is like. full of seeds? aka buildings, labs, and. blegh i dont know :(

haha don't prototype your sprite with something powerful before entering the medium

the moons have a preset number of towers for each kernal, and KNOWS how many players will be playing the game. only three players, you think? think again. -- (see page 440)

underlings will also show up in your house! all underlings will have designs based off of what each of the players prototyped their sprite with before entering the medium. see ==> act 4 (pg 1358) for cat imps in lowas
imps drop their strife card, and various types of grist upon death
oh my god they also steal people (pg 421)
ogers are like. really big imps. they take whatever they can find, and use it to bash in your skull! ow!
basilisks can shoot fire!!! they're the serpants
giclopses are uh. the big ass cyclopses
liches! they exist!
underlings don't like frogs! 

underlings seem to be based off of the color scheme of your land?
john's are black
rose's are white (pg 1582)

nannasprite gives this exposition about the medium:
"A realm that is a ring of pure void, dividing light and darkness. It turns in the thick of The Incipisphere, a place untouched by the flow of time in your universe." (pg 421)
the ultimate riddle is really just that everything you do has been locked in place! - pg 1903

sburb is only a way to get to the medium... it has existed long before sburb was coded. outside of your solar system i think? see jack: accend

there's a bunch of return nodes everywhere! (pg 1606)
the second gate is in the land? (act 4 ==>)

GATES
your first gate will bring you into your land without killing you :D
your second gate will bring you into your server player's world! (pg 1687)
every even gate brings you to the server player of the land, and every odd gate brings you into the land. it's unclear if the second gate above your house is the 3rd gate... (pg 1692)

DREAM MOONS
there are two dream moons - prospit and derse. prospit is tied to the light, and derse-to the dark. 
dream moons get their name from the fact that you wake up there when you dream! your bedroom is also copied there, but other than that... you're just on another planet :p like actually
to actually have your dream self wake up though, you need to... do something. like nudge your subconcious. pg 1627

ROYALTY
queens and kings are able to take off their rings / deactivate their staffs respectivly, removing the powers they gain from the prototypings. pg 1617, pg 1808
if a queen's ring is given to another moon citizen, they will gain the powers of the queen! jack: accend
unless it's on a human. doesn't work that way on humans. pg 1799

JACK NOIR
jackiepoo is a silly little guy who's too serious for this world :3
there's technically 2 jacks per session...
derse jack has 3 walls that he can use to spy on derse ! his fourth wall was stolen a while ago by. andtrew hussard
Stupid lousy WISE AND JUST LEADER. What a royal pain in the ass.

--

-- SKAIA --

skaia is above the medium, and in the middle of the incipisphere. it's a "crucible of unlimited creative potential" ...
forces of light tries to protect skaia, while forces of darkness try to destroy it. these two forces have been trapped in a stalemate forever though... until the kernalsprite hatches

skaia BLASTS INFORMATION INTO YOUR SKULL WHILE DREAMING... once it knows about you?

-- skies of skiaia would be a nice song for skaia's page

--

-- THE BATTLEFIELD --

first seen on pg 1801, the battlefield is a seperate planet where the fight between derse and prospit takes place
exists not just for this purpose... as seen in the aformention page number
with each prototyping, the battlefield becomes more and more... existent!

--

-- THE FURTHEST RING --

the furthest ring exists outside of the medium. it is the entire area outside of it, in fact!

--

-- FLASHES --
!! make sure to get thumbnails to put for each flash !! 

important eggyberb flashes: 
> [S] John: Play haunting piano refrain. (pg 77 - first flash) -- talked
> [S] ==> (pg 82 - title flash) -- talked
> [S] STRIFE! (pg 90 - first strife!!) -- talked
> [S] John: Take bite of apple. (pg 246 - john DIES (enters the medium). caps off act 1) -- talked
> [S] YOU THERE. BOY. (pg 253 - first playable flash!!) -- talked
> [S] ==>==>==>!!!!!!!!! (pg 393 - first imp strife) -- talked
> [S] Jade: Descend. (pg 843 - oger strife) -- talked
> [S] Rose: Ascend. (pg 879 - oger takedown!) -- talked
> [S] John: Examine your dad's room. (pg 947) -- talked
> [S] John: Mental breakdown. (pg 979 - first use of this is stupid.!!) -- talked
> [S] ACT 4 ==> -- talked
> [S] John: Reunite with your loving wife and daughter. (pg 1931. caps off act 4) -- talked

rose flashes: 
> [S] Rose: Play a haunting refrain on the violin. (pg 222 - first rose flash) -- talked
> [S] Rose: Youth roll right out the front door. (pg 388 - rose's strife) -- talked
> [S] Rose: Fast forward to now. (pg 938 - jaspers... oh, sweet precious jaspers...) -- talked
> [S] Enter. (pg 1149 - caps off act 3) -- talked
> [S] ==> (pg 1407 - lowar introduction) -- talked

dave flashes: 
> [S] Dave: Ascend to the highest point of the building. (pg 665 - upward movement) -- talked
> [S] Dave: STRIFE. (pg 836 - beatdown, round 1)-- talked
> [S] Dave: Abscond. (pg 871 - beatdown, round 2)-- talked
> [S] Dave: Strife! (pg 1070 - beatdown, round 3) -- talked
> [S] Dave: Accelerate. (pg 1641) -- talked
> [S] Descend. (pg 1940. OH MY GOD) -- talked somewhat

my flashes!!!!
> [S] Jade: Play a silly flute refrain. (pg 769 - just a silly little fake out) -- talked
> [S] Jade: Play a hauntingly relaxing bassline. (pg 822 - actual music thing) -- talked
> [S] MIDNIGHT CREW: ACT 1031 (pg 833 - the midnight crew fought the PS guys once???) -- talked
> [S] Strife!!! (pg 918 - fightin with my old man) -- talked
> [S] Jade: Retrieve package. (pg 980 - woofstrife) -- talked
> [S] Jade: Pester John. (pg 1073) -- talked

wayward vagabond flashes: 
> [S] WV: Ascend. (pg 757 - establishes what planet the exiles are on, shows how jade's island formed, and teases dave and bro's fight. caps off act 2) -- talked
> [S] WV?: Rise up. (pg 1801) -- talked

the midnight crew flashes:
> [S] [I] ==> (pg 1267 - something in your eye) -- talked
> [S] Jack: Ascend. (pg 1668 - black) -- talked

-- list of recaps --
pg 1674: end of year 1