currently on mspa 724
-- PROBLEM SLEUTH --

META:
keyguns - idea made from "the user is always wrong"
items must be in your pocket to use them! weapons have a dedicated inventory spot

false windows are too big to cary in inventory - mspa 272
however, with a high enough vim level you can just. pick them up! (mspa 645)
gravity seems to be translated from one world to the other-for you, specifically (mspa 652)
also, windows can affect your size! (mspa 697)

PULCHRITUDE was originally the useless stat - gained from CANDY CORN
pulchritude ACTUALLY lets you convince people of things easier: if you're hot enough, nobody can say no! apparently!
however, your pulchritude will only get you so far... since its effects wear off after you influence someone to do one thing (mspa 606)

vim is gained by drinking coffee, or other intense liqours (like hot sauce) :D
vim gives you strength. it allows AD to pick up the hutch bust (mspa 361)
hot sauce increases your vim greatley, albeit temporarilly. when you're doused with water, or otherwise cooled off, the effect goes away! (mspa 48)

imagination refills from being intoxicated! :( 
your imagination level stays filled even when positive imagination effects wear off, leaving you with a bar that gives you a negative stat (mspa 336)
in imaginary spaces, things make... slightly less sense. mspa 323
the realm of imagination is also similar to the dream moons - you can only be in either Imagination Land or the actual world at any given time
you have multiple imagination lives! when you die, you wake up in the "real world"
the window and imaginary worlds seem connected: when PS sends up items on the reel-to-reel (mspa 432), they're brought back up to PS's office in the real world (mspa 442) (outright confimed on pg 543!!!!)
due to the fact you can enter and exit the imaginary plane with windows, we get to see IPI die on mspa 543. your imaginary self cannot exist in the real world!!!!
having a high imagination level also allows you to ignore pain (mspa 448)
if you have a REALLY high imagination stat, you can imagine anything. (hehe :3) see PI's office, and mspa 505 

the ACTUAL dream moon stuff is introduced on mspa 665.
(from a player pov) when your character goes unconcious, you gain control of just. that character. but a different gender 
and from a different time (mspa 667)
this person seems to actually be a seperate person still... (mspa 527, 499)  
however, your new character will have a LOT of parralels to the unconcious one. (mspa 672)

mannercite shards let you be nice... if you have enough of them. (mspa 649, 657)
the monstrance (thing that holds your mannercite shards) is a real thing btw. (mspa 721)

boons let you move busts of weasles, elves, clowns, and pigs (mspa 700)

[ BATTLE MENU ]
AGRESS: attack with current weapon (a attack)
BATTLE TECNIQUE: do a SPECIAL MOVE (costs may vary(mspa 530, mspa 608))
COMBAT OPERANDI: do a SPECIAL FUCKING MOVE (mspa 528)
-- custom options --
- PS -
PERSUADE:
MOLLIFY: for mulling things over, (mspa 551) or just shooting people (mspa 620)
- AD - 
PERTURB:
EXACERBATE: unused?
- PI - 
PERPLEX:
CONFOUND:
--
ABSCOND: run awayyyyyy!!!!!!!!!! D:

insulin:
elf tears: lets you do special moves (mspa 528), and summon animals! (mspa 523)
animal communion: communication with animals! you are only able to communicate with certain animals - which animals you can communicate with is based on your level. (mspa 516)
animal allegiance: who you're aligned with ^_^ elves or weasles... you decide!
brutal affronts are crits?
savage upbraids are mega crits??? (mspa 537)
AUTO PERRY: something hussie does when he wants to draw something silly :^)
lets you automatically dodge an enemy's attack! (mspa 529)
[ /BATTLE /MENU ]

top-left compass :D red is north, the outline and other directions are black! white bg

CUT SCENE used to indicate to players that they can't do anything

you can only go through windows when they're powered on! (mspa 374)
you can also only break them when they're on (mspa 387)
if you're near a powered-off window in Microsoftland, there will be "metaphysical consequences" (mspa 413)

all "alternate realities" happen - as evident from the PS body on page 393

first use of halfpanel split used on mspa 299
haunting refrain + hard to kiss on mspa 304
inital (PS, AD, PI ect) commands introduced mspa 365
CANDY CORN VAMPIRE mspa 384

STORY:
"it's gonna be a long night" - mspa 228

BEN STILLER BUST!!!! - PS probably thinks it was placed on purpose by AD (mspa 282), however this really isn't the case (mspa 284 and 351's commentary)

foreshadows the fake-ish windows on mspa 253

"At this stage of the story there is one and only one rule: The user is always wrong. SO of course he cannot guess correctly that the window is fake. And yet, the window can't exactly be real either. WE will see how this conflict is reconciled shortly."

misogyny in PS's imagination :(

since everything in "weird puzzle shit" games is convoluted, the most conveniant escape route from PS's office being a convoluted safe isn't really ironic! it's just... normal (thought came up from mspa 274)

windows run on etch-a-sketch technology? for only one panel (mspa 341)

CHARACTERS:
- relations - 
PS -> jealous of, and anatgonized by AD. whenever we're reading from PS, AD is framed extremly poorly (mspa 396)
AD -> apparently feuding with PS, but feels like they should "bury the hatchet" (mspa 359). used to antagonize PS more with notes (mspa 380)... also believes that PI was trapped by PS (mspa 412)

PI -> wants to be polite to all (mspa 641)
- primary stats - 
PS: pulchritude
AD: vim
PI: imagination

- extra storage! - 
PS: hat - pocket
AD: stomach (needs to get drunk to puke up whatever's in it)

PLACES: 
PS, AD and PI's offices are all next to each other
AD's hideout is right below PS's. you can travel between them with the dumbwaiter
there's a portal to an Elf Room in PI's room (mspa 602). it's also an elevator room? (mspa 622)

up the elevator is a bunch of monitors, for keeping track of the Problem Crew (mspa 628)
this room also has a map of some kingdoms!
TOP LEFT:
TOP RIGHT: weasles? elves? probably elves (mspa 639, 650)
BOTTOM LEFT:
BOTTOM RIGHT: 
this room also has a CODE MACHINE which will load a previous state in the game (mspa 676)

through a door in PS's hideout is a room meant to store instruments... though, all the instruments that WERE stored are currently gone. including the ones in that room's picture frames. (mspa 482)
after PS plays a piano in this room, 3 instruments appear under the pictures!

through a door in AD's hideout is a liquor making facility
these two rooms seem to both be below the speakeasy - "Loud swing music and lively footsteps are heard from the room above" is present on both mspa 461 and 460, while a target in AD's boiler room is placed right under where the MK statue is in the speakeasy
on mspa 568, it's revealed that the oboedoor is in the speakeasy!

AD's window leads to a fire escape, which extends to PI's skyscraper-skylight

PI has an elf room in his office... yknow. the one that looks like a poster.
the elves like to keep an eye on him... (mspa 556) maybe due to his height characteristic being vital to the weasles (mspa 625)
the elf room also leads to the speakeasy! through the fireplace!
and, under their table (mspa 639), is a hatch to...

for some reason, there's a king weasel poster in the speakeasy that lifts up and turns on a fan when moonlight sonata is played. bluh
(pg 574)
beyond the door in the speakeasy is the entrence to MK's layer. maybe? 

WEASEL SHIT PLACE UGH
after PI gets some eggs for some weasels, he's taken to a spiderhole. he jumps in. it takes years for him to fall.
once he finishes falling, he's trapped in a room with a medicine cabnet!
as a Smart Man, he walks into it and falls unconcious, thus redirecting the player's control over him to NB

NB's aparentment...
there's a music box with a window inside! this window is connected to the shop that an IPS died near :(
the window window in her apartment leads to... somewhere with MK. sigh. (mspa 698)

the animal room!
weasel door leads to the elf room elevator room thing. room. the one with the weirdest puzzle ever. (mspa 713)

-- ANIMAL RELATIONS --
pigs -> hate weasles

elves -> hate weasles
weasles -> hate elves
